# MMCi Github Assignment

## Description of Use Case
The use case we've chosen is about using Github and version control for recipes. Specifically, we looked at how this Github user, https://github.com/mathias/recipes, used Github for writing down and storing vegan recipes. His page has a list of his recipes in an easy-to-read markdown format. When he makes one of the dishes, he often goes back and adds notes to the recipe to keep track of anything he might want to change for next time or notes for how it turned out for the readers to know. Using Github allows him to keep a version history of the recipes and see his changes and additions over time. His readme.md file encourages users to fork from his repository, add their own recipes, and edit his readme.md file to let future readers know. This allows users to make changes and additions, without affecting his original recipe. 

## Why is it a good use of version control?
Github for version control of recipes is an excellent case to demonstrate the usability and value of free and open source version control.  Recipes have a history, they may begin with an old family recipe that changes throughout the years.  Github allows for a complete long term change history of every file so each snapshot of the tweaking of the old family recipe will be kept for generation.  Yet great grandchildren will be able to you to revert back to the original recipe or their favorite version of ole family recipe they remember growing up.  They can also compare changes of the recipes over the years and see if someone had introduced an ingredient that made the recipe no longer delicious or took away the butter because they were lactose intolerant.  Most importantly, the recipes will never be lost and easily recoverable. Another great argument for this use case is that recipes on Github are always accessible.  If you are looking for Grandma’s recipe for chocolate chip cookies to bake in your remote mountain cabin getaway, you can still access the recipe version you want without the internet.   Every time you commit a snapshot of the recipes are stored in your local database making your ability to use or modify them always at your fingertips. 

## Where does it fall short in leveraging version control tools?
The use of GitHub for a recipe repository or cookbook is a viable use of this version control tool, especially to capture the creative process and have multiple contributers while coming up with the best version of your favorite dish. There will be some challenges in leveraging it that the user should be aware of before starting. First is patience with getting comfortable to using it. GitHub for sure was made for the IT programming crowd in mind. The non-IT, everyday kind of user will have a slower time getting started with this. Not only are the key concepts, commands and workflows not in layman's terms, but the system is not very intuititve. A tutorial on how to use GitHub would be very valuable, but are nearly nonexistent. Given the use case of creating a recipe stash or even family cookbook, this may be a significant issue in this use case with those contributing, ie family members, who may not be very tech savy. The learning curve increase with repeated use, now you just have to sell the non-tech person to use it.
Another restrictive issue is its limitation with the size of files that can be uploaded. For text this may not be an issue, but with regards to uploading pictures this could have significat limitations.  Many blogs and cookbooks rely heavily on being able to show a step by step process in a recipe, from the tools that will be needed, to the ingredients, and final product. Many use videos as well, which use a large amount file storage. While GitHub may have live links available, the final product for this use case may be less than desirable due to this limitation. A secondary issue with uploading and using images, video and music is how to version control these files. GitHub's version control for text works extremely well, but is less than desirable for these other formats.
Lastly, if you are reliant on the spell check and grammer corrector functionality, this may be a deal breaker for you. There are ways to "hook" in this feature, but it is not automatic.



## What would you do differently?
GitHub is a powerful tool developed to help with a range of tasks. In our Use Case, the user did not utilize the full functionality of the tool. For example, he did not create tasks or track the progress of the project. He did not need this for tracking his recipes as he is the only user currently. For the same reason, he does not have active tasks or projects. Perhaps, as his recipes gain more public attention there will be a need for delegation of particular tasks. You can imagine that these functions might be useful if he expands his usage from a simple recipe collection to ensuring that specific chefs edit and modify designated recipes.  The user also did not have a need for code hosting. Finally, he did not automate any of the workflow.

GitHub still serves this user's purpose of publically sharing his documents and maintaining tight version control over them. It remains to be seen whether the user needs robust version control as he currently has no collaborators. Certainly, he will still be able to track his own modifications to his recipes as he matures into a culinary genius. However, he should consider inviting other chefs to his repository and assigning specific tasks.  This will enable them to more rapidly improve their recipes in a collaborative environment while maintaining tight version control through GitHub.
